.. I'm on page 214/798 right now <-- DONE
.. Challenge work ??? <-- NOT STARTED
.. assignment 6 is Question 1 on page 796-797, chapter 17

Unit six, section one
++++++++++++++++++++++


Making decisions about computers
=================================


Challenge work submission
===========================

1. Lorem ipsum
2. Lorem ipsum


.. note:: 
   Corresponds to challenge work #??, on page ??? of the text. The instructions may say a short profile, but the course Brightspace says 2-3 paragraphs is sufficient.



Works cited
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schneider, G. Michael, and Judith Gersting. Invitation to Computer Science. 6th ed., Cengage Learning, 2013.


Assignment 6 (chapter seventeen, section one)
=================================================
Question 1 on page 796-797, chapter 17:

A. Topics
~~~~~~~~~~
Pick three topics from the list shown, or make up some topics of your own that involve technology and humans. For each topic, think of an analogous situation that does not involve computing. Make a short list of how each analogy is like the topic and how the analogy is different from the topic:


    - Loss of jobs due to technology
    - Untaxed bots in the workplace
    - AI and the negative environmental impact



Loss of jobs due to machinery
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Similar since industrial revolution introduced machinery like the technological revolution is introducing automation in AI and computing
- Different in that the machinery job replacement was very specific or limited, like rotating a box on an assembly line prior to label or sticker application. Now we have much more complicated processes being automated with AI and computing, like a robotic warehouse workers.


Untaxed tools in the workplace
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Similar since AI and automation is an extension of a tool, and we don't tax a torque wrench that replaced strength, or a conveyor belt production line which replaced people.
- Different in that these robots are much more free thinking and capable of wider disruption in competitive markets, and social systems which rely on tax. It benefits the ultra wealthy while widening a gap between the working class, where the industrial revolution replacements were able to successfully allow benefits to the workers who often used them as assistance, and not as replacements, since the industrial era tooling was not capable of autonomous thinking scope. 


Factories and the negative environmental impact
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Similar since the industrial era was notoriously known for causing pollution with solid fuel and coal based power backing factories, creating excess PM2 and PM10 byproducts.
- Different since the technological revolution is currently spending large amounts of water to cool server farms, and creating mass amounts of power drain on the planet, impacting aquatic life and all life on earth which requires the deminishing availability of water. 



B. Stakeholders 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pick your favorite topic from among the three topics you chose. For that topic, make a new list of all the significant stakeholders in the topic. (Hint: Remember that a stakeholder can be an individual, a group of individuals, a corporation, perhaps the environment, or any other entities you think are important in your topic.) For each stakeholder, list what the stakeholder most values in this situation.


**AI and the negative environmental impact**

- Government: regulations and reform, controls, social security of dwindling tax payments
  
- Workers: job security, workplace safety, fair wages

- Climate change activists: Protecting biodiversity, reducing emissions

- Investors: profit, avoiding regulation and risks surrounding conventional labour forces

- Consumers: reduced pricing

- Water management: Supply, sustainable use, preventing contamination

- Agriculture: access to water, industrial contamination, soil health, land availability, encroachment on land

- Energy sector: profit



C. Costs and benefits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For each stakeholder you identified in Exercise 1b, list the possible costs and benefits in the situation you chose. In many cases, these are potential costs and benefits, things that might or might not happen.



**Government**
- Costs: loss of tax revenue from displaced workers, backlash from labour groups, operational costs for enforcing regulations
- Benefits: increase in economic efficiency, possible new tax revenue from AI-driven industry
  

**Workers**
- Costs: job displacement and reduced wages due to free-thinking automation. Fewer employment opportunities
- Benefits: new jobs generated by AI, increase in workplace safety


**Climate change activists**
- Costs: electronic waste increase from rapidly outdated AI hardware
- Benefits: better availability of AI modelling and data aggregation for sustainability efforts for low funded NPOs who can't afford data scientists


**Investors**
- Costs: risk of strikes and social activism disruption to investments, and regulatory changes
- Benefits: high profit margins


**Consumers**
- Costs: privacy risks, reliance on AI, job losses, and possible inverse effects i.e increased costs
- Benefits: (possibly) decreased product costs, convenience, better product quality


**Water management**
- Costs: higher water consumption for AI data centers, risk of local water shortages
- Benefits: AI-driven water efficiency improvements, predictive analytics for water conservation

**Agriculture**
- Costs: competition for water, disruption to operations from industrial expansion
- Benefits: aggricultural AI advancements

**Energy sector**
- Costs: increased costs energy from demand, pressure to transition to renewable infrastructure, strain on existing infrastructure
- Benefits: profit


D. Duties and responsibilities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Make a 2D table that has (n) × (n) cells. At the top of the table, label each column with one of your stakeholders. At the left of the table, copy the list of stakeholders, one for each row. Inside each cell, list any duties or responsibilities that the stakeholder on the left owes the stakeholder above. Don’t neglect the cells that describe duties people have to themselves.


.. list-table:: Duties and Responsibilities Among Stakeholders
   :widths: auto
   :header-rows: 1

   * -  
     - Government
     - Workers
     - Climate Change Activists
     - Investors
     - Consumers
     - Water Management
     - Agriculture
     - Energy Sector
   * - **Government**
     - Enforce fair policies, ensure economic stability
     - Protect worker rights, support retraining programs
     - Implement sustainability regulations
     - Maintain investment-friendly policies, regulate AI impact
     - Protect consumer privacy and job security
     - Regulate AI water consumption, ensure fair distribution
     - Support sustainable farming, manage land use
     - Regulate energy consumption, incentivize renewables
   * - **Workers**
     - Pay taxes, comply with laws, participate in policy discussions
     - Advocate for fair wages, upskill for AI-driven economy
     - Reduce environmental footprint
     - Maintain productivity, avoid unnecessary disruptions
     - Support ethical businesses
     - Use water responsibly
     - Adopt AI in agriculture responsibly
     - Conserve energy in workplaces
   * - **Climate Change Activists**
     - Advocate for stronger environmental policies
     - Support sustainable labor practices
     - Encourage corporate responsibility
     - Hold investors accountable for green investments
     - Educate consumers on eco-friendly choices
     - Promote sustainable water usage
     - Push for sustainable agriculture
     - Advocate for clean energy adoption
   * - **Investors**
     - Fund sustainable and ethical policies
     - Support job creation through AI investment
     - Invest in green initiatives
     - Ensure stable long-term returns
     - Promote AI ethics in consumer products
     - Support water conservation technologies
     - Invest in agricultural AI responsibly
     - Fund renewable energy projects
   * - **Consumers**
     - Vote for responsible governance
     - Demand fair working conditions
     - Support sustainable businesses
     - Invest in ethical brands
     - Protect personal privacy, make informed choices
     - Reduce water consumption
     - Choose sustainably sourced food
     - Use energy-efficient products
   * - **Water Management**
     - Follow government water policies
     - Ensure fair water distribution for industries
     - Support AI for water conservation
     - Develop policies that balance investment and sustainability
     - Provide safe drinking water for consumers
     - Promote responsible water usage
     - Ensure agriculture gets sufficient water
     - Work with the energy sector to optimize water use
   * - **Agriculture**
     - Follow environmental and labor laws
     - Provide stable employment opportunities
     - Reduce harmful emissions
     - Ensure sustainable investment in AI farming
     - Supply safe and sustainable food products
     - Use water efficiently in farming
     - Maintain food security and supply chain stability
     - Shift towards energy-efficient farming practices
   * - **Energy Sector**
     - Follow government energy policies
     - Provide stable jobs in energy production
     - Reduce carbon emissions
     - Balance profit with sustainability
     - Offer energy-efficient solutions to consumers
     - Ensure responsible water usage
     - Support agriculture with reliable energy
     - Transition to renewable energy sources



Works cited
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schneider, G. Michael, and Judith Gersting. Invitation to Computer Science. 6th ed., Cengage Learning, 2013.
